# mappire
Linkage analysis is a genetic method to understand the segregation of genes which demonstrates the recombination landscape within a species (from a single cross). TetraploidSNPMap (Hackett et al. 2017), PolyGembler (Zhou et al. 2017), polymapR (Bourke et al. 2018), MAPpoly (Mollinari and Garcia 2019), and netgwas (Behrouzi et al. 2019) allow us to perform linkage analysis using bi-allelic SNP markers. As the allele within a bi-parental population are inherited as blocks, we would expect clustering markers into haploblocks would contain more information. Here, haploblock contains multiple sequence of genomic variants, typically SNPs, within a narrow contig, where no recombination happen within each block (Wang, Akey, Zhang, Chakraborty, & Jin, 2002). In linkage study of two bi-allelic markers, phasing can be repulsion, coupling, or mixed, where the capacity to map each allele is limited. The use of haploblock, assigning multiple bi-allelic markers into one (therefore, we can also name it as multi-allelic marker), allows us to map more alleles and lead to haplotype maps directly after linkage estimation. This study introduced a new approach that estimates recombination frequency and phasing with haplotypes. An example of one tetraploid F1 population was given for illustration. Here we used different letters to represent the unique haplotypes. In a tetraploid, if we notate the unique haplotypes A, B, C and D, when we look at one parent, we could distinguish ABCD, AABB, AABC, and AAAB in an individual.
